Relocate some pages so that they naturally fit into the flow (#489)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/configuration/files/mimetypes.adoc

= Mimetypes Management
:toc: right
:page-aliases: configuration/mimetypes/index.adoc

:description: ownCloud allows you to create aliases for mimetypes and map file extensions to a mimetype. These allow administrators the ability to change the existing icons that ownCloud uses to represent certain file types and folders, as well as to use custom icons for mimetypes and file extensions which ownCloud doesn’t natively support.

== Introduction

{description}

> This is handy in a variety of situations, such as when you might want a custom audio icon for audio mimetypes, instead of the default file icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is handy in a variety of situations, e.g. if you want a custom audio icon for audio mimetypes instead of the default file icon.
```

== Mimetype Aliases

ownCloud’s default mimetype configuration is defined in

[source,plaintext]
----
owncloud/resources/config/mimetypealiases.dist.json
----

> which you can see a snippet of below. The mimetype’s on the left, and the icon used to represent that mimetype is on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can see a snippet of the file where the mimetype’s on the left and the icon used to represent that mimetype is on the right.
```

[source,json]
----
{
 "application/coreldraw": "image",
 "application/font-sfnt": "image",
 "application/font-woff": "image",
 "application/illustrator": "image",
 "application/epub+zip": "text",
 "application/javascript": "text/code",
}
----

> Stepping through that file, you can see that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that:
```

> * the image icon is used to represent Corel Draw, SFNT and WOFF font files, and Adobe Illustrator files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the image icon is used to represent Corel Draw, SFNT and WOFF font files, and Adobe Illustrator files,
```

> * ePub files are represented by the text file icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ePub files are represented by the text file icon,
```

* JavaScript files are represented by the text/code icon.

=== Changing Existing Icons and Using Custom Icons

If you want to change one or more of the existing icons which ownCloud uses, or if you want to expand the available list, here’s how to do so:

First, create a copy of

[source,plaintext]
----
resources/config/mimetypealiases.dist.json
----

and save it as

[source,plaintext]
----
config/mimetypealiases.json
----

This is required for two reasons:

1.  It will take precedence over the default file.
2.  The original file will get replaced on each ownCloud upgrade.

> Then, either override one or more existing definitions or add new, custom aliases as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, either override one or more existing definitions or add new custom aliases as required.
```

NOTE: Please refer to the xref:developer_manual:core/theming.adoc[ownCloud theming documentation] for where to put the new image files.

Some common mimetypes that may be useful in creating aliases are:

[cols=",",options="header",]
|============================================
| Mimetype
| Description

| `image`
| Generic image

| `image/vector`
| Vector image

| `audio`
| Generic audio file

| `x-office/document`
| Word processed document

| `x-office/spreadsheet`
| Spreadsheet

| `x-office/presentation`
| Presentation

| `text`
| Generic text document

| `text/code`
| Source code
|============================================

Once you have made changes to

[source,plaintext]
----
config/mimetypealiases.json
----

use the xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc[occ command] to propagate the changes throughout your ownCloud installation. Here is an example for Ubuntu Linux:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:mimetype:update-js
----

=== Example - Changing the JSON File Icon

image:configuration/mimetypes/json-alias-before.png[The default icon for JSON files]

> Let’s step through an example, from start to finish, of changing the icon that ownCloud uses to represent JSON files, which you can see above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s go through an example of to change the icon that ownCloud uses to represent JSON files, which you can see above.
```
